1.Install Flatpak

To install Flatpak on Ubuntu 18.10 (Cosmic Cuttlefish) or later, simply run:
 sudo apt install flatpak
    
With older Ubuntu versions, the official Flatpak PPA is the recommended way to install Flatpak. To install it, run the following in a terminal:
 sudo add-apt-repository ppa:flatpak/stable
 sudo apt update
 sudo apt install flatpak
    
2.Install the Software Flatpak plugin
The Flatpak plugin for the Software app makes it possible to install apps without needing the command line. To install, run:
    sudo apt install gnome-software-plugin-flatpak
    
Note: the Software app is distributed as a Snap since Ubuntu 20.04 and does not support graphical installation of Flatpak apps. Installing the Flatpak plugin will also install a deb version of Software and result in two Software apps being installed at the same time.

3.Add the Flathub repository
Flathub is the best place to get Flatpak apps. To enable it, run:
    flatpak remote-add --if-not-exists flathub https://flathub.org/repo/flathub.flatpakrepo
    
4.Restart
To complete setup, restart your system. Now all you have to do is install some apps!

    https://flathub.org/apps/collection/popular


COMO INSTALAR LAS APPS:
Como ejemplo, instalamos la aplicacion 'Shotcut' que su nombre de paquete es 'org.shotcut.Shotcut' o sea:
app=org.shotcut.Shotcut
Los comandos para instalar y luego iniciar la aplicacion serian:
Install:    flatpak install flathub $app
Run:        flatpak run $app




::OFICINA
    ::ONLYOFFICE Desktop Editors. Work on documents of most popular formats: DOCX, ODT, XLSX, ODS, CSV, PPTX, ODP, etc.
    app: org.onlyoffice.desktopeditors

    ::WPS Office Writer, Presentation Spreadsheets. It can easily open and read the documents created with Microsoft Office.
    app: com.wps.Office

    ::AbiWord. Word Office processor
    app: com.abisource.AbiWord

    ::Microsoft Teams for Linux is your chat-centered workspace in Office 365
    app: com.microsoft.Teams

    ::Open source GUI client for Google Drive
    app: io.github.liberodark.OpenDrive

::INTERNET
    Firefox. Fast, Private & Safe Web Browser
    app: org.mozilla.firefox

    ::Chromium Web Browser. The web browser from Chromium project
    app: org.chromium.Chromium

    ::Video Downloader. Download videos from websites like YouTube and many others
    app: com.github.unrud.VideoDownloader

    Spotify. Online music streaming service
    app: com.spotify.Client
    
    ::Telegram Desktop. Fast. Secure. Powerful.
    app: org.telegram.desktop
    
    ::Zoom. Video Conferencing, Web Conferencing, Webinars, Screen Sharing
    app: us.zoom.Zoom

    ::Discord. Messaging, Voice, and Video Client
    app: com.discordapp.Discord

    ::Tor Browser Launcher. A program to help you download, keep updated, and run the Tor Browser Bundle
    app: com.github.micahflee.torbrowser-launcher

    ::Skype. Call and message skype users, with video chat support
    app: com.skype.Client

::DESARROLLO
    ::Sublime Text. Sophisticated text editor for code, markup and prose
    app: com.sublimetext.three

    ::Geany. Developed to provide a small and fast IDE, which has only a few dependencies on other packages. 
    app: org.geany.Geany
    
    ::DBeaver Community. Free multi-platform database tool for developers, SQL programmers, database administrators and analysts. Supports: MySQL, PostgreSQL, MariaDB, SQLite, Oracle, DB2, SQL Server, Sybase, MS Access, Teradata, Firebird, Derby, etc.
    app: io.dbeaver.DBeaverCommunity

    ::Sequeler. Friendly SQL Client, connect to your local or remote database. Supported: SQLite,MySQL,MariaDB,PostgreSQL
    app: com.github.alecaddd.sequeler

    ::Postman is a complete API development environment.
    app: com.getpostman.Postman

    ::Marker. Powerful markdown editor for the GNOME desktop.
    app: com.github.fabiocolacio.marker

    ::gitg. Graphical user interface for git
    app: org.gnome.gitg

    ::Sublime Merge is a Git client, from the makers of Sublime Text
    app: com.sublimemerge.App

    ::Workbench. Sandbox to learn and prototype with GNOME techologies
    app: re.sonny.Workbench

    ::Flatpak developer demo application is a companion to the Flatpak developer documentation.
    app: org.flatpak.qtdemo

    ::Visual Studio Code. Code editing. Redefined.
    app: com.visualstudio.code

    ::Arduino IDE. Open-source electronics prototyping platform
    app: cc.arduino.arduinoide

    ::Xilinx Vivado Design Suite for hardware development
    app: com.github.corna.Vivado

    ::Hardware Probe. Check operability of computer hardware and find drivers
    app: org.linux_hardware.hw-probe

::SYSTEMA
    ::NVIDIA card, GreenWithEnvy.System utility designed to provide information, control the fans and overclock your NVIDIA card
    app: com.leinardi.gwe

    ::GNOME Network Displays. Stream the desktop to Wi-Fi Display capable devices. Miracast Wireless Display on Linux
    app: org.gnome.NetworkDisplays
    
    ::GNOME Boxes. Virtualization made simple. A simple GNOME 3 application to manage virtual systems.
    app: org.gnome.Boxes

    ::ONVIFViewer. View and control network cameras using the ONVIF protocol
    app: net.meijn.onvifviewer

::MULTIMEDIA
    ::Kodi. play and view videos, music, podcasts, and other digital media files from local storage, network storage and the internet. 
    app: tv.kodi.Kodi

    ::OBS Studio. Live streaming and video recording software
    app: com.obsproject.Studio

    ::Shotcut. Video editor
    app: org.shotcut.Shotcut
    Mixxx DJ Software

Everything you need to perform live DJ mixes
Install:flatpak install flathub org.mixxx.Mixxx
Run:flatpak run org.mixxx.Mixxx

::GRAFICOS
    ::Inkscape. Vector Graphics Editor
    app: org.inkscape.Inkscape

    GNU Image Manipulation Program. Create images and edit photographs
    app: org.gimp.GIMP

    ::Blender. Free and open source 3D creation suite
    app: org.blender.Blender

    ::Pitivi is a video editor that aims to appeal to hobbyists and professionals alike, with a strong focus on efficiency, quality and usability.
    app: org.pitivi.Pitivi

    ::Kdenlive. Video Editor
    app: org.kde.kdenlive

::EDUCACION
    ::Kiwix. View offline content. You need to download contents from https://library.kiwix.org/?lang=spa 
    app: org.kiwix.desktop

    ::GeoGebra. Solve equations, graph functions, create constructions, analyze data, explore 3D math!
    app: org.geogebra.GeoGebra

    ::FreeCAD. An open source parametric 3D CAD modeler
    app: org.freecadweb.FreeCAD

    ::Calculus. Compute derivatives and integrals
    app: com.github.carlos157oliveira.Calculus

    ::Genius. General purpose calculator program
    app: org.gnome.Genius

    ::OpenBoard is an open source cross-platform teaching software for interactive whiteboard designed primarily for use in schools and universities.
    app: ch.openboard.OpenBoard

    ::KTouch. Touch Typing Tutor
    app: org.kde.ktouch

    ::Abacus. A tool for simple arithmetic calculations
    app: org.sugarlabs.AbacusActivity

::COMUNICACION Y REDES Y SEGURIDAD
    ::Wireshark is the world's foremost protocol analyzer
    app: org.wireshark.Wireshark

    ::Zenmap. A cross-platform GUI for the Nmap Security Scanner
    app: org.nmap.Zenmap

::CIENCIA
    ::Gpredict. Real-time satellite tracking and orbit prediction program
    app: net.oz9aec.Gpredict